>> Mike North: The next thing we are gonna
look at is functions, and function types.
So look in the notes folder,
this is the file that starts with
the number 2, function basics
>> Mike North: So I have a function here
called sendEmail and
I have an argument her called to.
And what I'm using here is HasEmail.
And if I do,
at least on a Mac, Cmd, click,
that'll take me to this interface from the
previous notes that we were going through.
I exported this interface
from the previous module, and
you can jump to
the definition of this type.
So I'm gonna be reusing things as we
go along, but this points out that
we can import and export interfaces and
types, just like we can do with values.
This is how we indicate a return type,
and it's actually the same
convention we've been using for
variables, It's colon followed by type.
And this is an object that has two
strings, recipient and body, and
here we're just building up that body
to send, apparently, some spam email.
So this is a place where I tend
to always use type annotations.
And this is because I wanted to find
the contract that this function has
with other parts of my program.
Type script can infer
return types pretty well.
But it's very easy to slip up and
unintentionally change things, which
I'll demonstrate in a couple of minutes.
This is the arrow-function flavor of,
basically,
the same thing, and the only
difference is you have the fat arrows.
So it's the parameter list, colon,
type, fat arrow implementation, right?
Parameter list, colon, type, and then the
fat arrow, and you'll get used to that.
So, return types can be inferred.
This is a function that
will take a contact and,
un terms of what this function needs,
it may typically operate on things that
have way more than just the property name.
But I'm being conservative,
in terms of allowing this operate on
any object that has a property name.
When I'm typing function arguments,
I kinda wanna state the minimum thing
I need, in order to avoid
over-constraining the function, right?
This might be useful elsewhere and
I don't want to artificially impose
additional requirements on
what these arguments must be.
I want it to be as flexible as possible.
And what's happening here is,
we split this string, contact.name,
we split it by weight space.
We throw,
if there are less than two parts.
And then we return an object where
the first part is the first name,
the last part is the last name.
The middle name, if we only have
two parts, ends up being undefined.
Or we join everything
in the middle together.
So, if we look at the return type here,
there it is.
Oops, and we can see that it
is correctly inferred, right?
So the compiler's going through all
possible paths of this program, and
it's figuring out what all
is possible to return here.
If, instead of, so like,
let's say we have this function,
and, at some point,
we need to handle the Madonna case or
the Prince case, where it's just
a mononym, there is no last name.
So we would then go up here and
say If parts.length = 1,
instead of throwing, we can just return,
oops, return .
So now, we've added an additional
possibility here where,
now, we return an object, and typescripts
try to impose some consistency here,
but we've returned something that
potentially has an undefined last name.
In fact, all of these values
will end up being undefined.
So, I may not have intended
this to work in such a way.
And this may affect
other parts of my code.
So, I like to specifically
state a return type,
because it keeps me honest within
all branches of this function,
to make sure that what I'm
returning is intentional.
You know,
sometimes you early terminate, right?
If you determine that this function
that was just called, it's no op now.
And early terminating, what does that,
if I just say return semicolon,
what am I really returning there?
If I invoke a function and it just says
return, semicolon, what value do I get?
Undefined.
So, that will change what this function,
it will change the type this
function returns, and that sort of has
a ripple effect through your code.
And I would rather keep that
boundary very deliberately created,
and operate on both inside and the outside
of the function, to make things work.
>> Mike North: So rest params
work just like you'd just expect,
nothing really interesting here.
The only thing you gotta be aware of
is the type of a rest param has to be
array-like.
Cuz it's gonna be consumed as an array.